# Virtualization

Virtualization is one of the foundation technology for cloud computing. It is a technology that enable Softwares and Operating Systems to run on top of the virtualization layer in many(or any) environment. Generally speaking virtualization is:
* A machine that’s implemented in software, rather than hardware
* A self-contained environment that acts like a computer
* An abstract specification for a computing device (instruction set, etc.)

In Virtualization  there are two important terminology `Host` and `Guest`. Host is the the underlying layer that provides `resources/APIs` to allow user to operate, and Guest is the virtualized `resources/APIs` on top of virtualization software and virtualization software is on top of Host, so Guest can share host resources/APIs.

## What is the need of virtualization

In the practical world, a service running on a server generally will not utilize all the resources allocated to it, a waste of resources. One possible solution is to run multiple services on the server to utilise its capability fully. But, often it's more reliable to run individual tasks on individual servers due to running environment requirement. So with virtualization, raw computing resources like CPU, RAM, disk, network and other can be virtulized into isolated environment. 

## Types of virtualisation

In computer system, system are divided into multiple layers in bottom-up order. Generally speaking there are six layers,

**Table from bottom to top**
| Layer               |  Description |
| :------------------ | :----------- |
| 1. Information      | Data representation(0\|1) |
| 2. Hardware         | Raw computing resources |
| 3. Programming      | Lower level programs and instructions to controll hardware  |
| 4. Operating System | A big software to manage Programs and instructions(may provide UI) |
| 5. Application      | Software that running on top of OS |
| 6. Communication    | Communication with other systems |

This is like Layered architecture, each layer only has a specific role and responsibility within the system and each layer only needs to understand the underlying interface. So this provides opportunities for virtualisation to provide another program at the lower layer with interfaces that are consistent with the operating environment it was originally expected. Like VMware software, provides interfaces for other OS to run on top of **layer 4** `Operating System`. Therefore different virtualization concepts can be appied at at different layer.



### Hardware Level virtualisation
This virtualisation is available right on top of the raw computing resources.

### OS Level virtualisation

### Language Level virtualisation


## How does it work

### Binary Translation

## Properties of Virtual Machines